#summary F.A.Q.
#labels Featured

= Frequently Asked Questions =

This page answers frequently asked questions about Tungsten.  

== What is the difference between Tungsten Replicator and Tungsten Enterprise? ==
Tungsten Replicator is an advanced product for database replication with features such as filters, seamless failover, parallel and multi-master replication.
[http://www.continuent.com/solutions/tungsten-enterprise Tungsten Enterprise] is a database clustering product that builds on top of Tungsten Replicator. While the Replicator is free, the Enterprise edition is a commercial package, available to customers only.

== Is Tungsten Replicator free? ==
Yes. It is free to use and modify under the terms of the GPL V2 license.

== Where is the code? ==
The code is [http://code.google.com/p/tungsten-replicator/source/checkout here]

== What happened to the old Continuent Community? ==

It is now here.  We do not have a community offering for the enterprise features any more.  Instead, we have open sourced 100% of the Tungsten Replicator.  You can get code downloads, log issues, and ask questions.  

If you need to get to the old Tungsten forums, you can reach them [http://www.continuent.com/forum here].  

== Is Tungsten Replicator supported? ==
Yes. We support Tungsten Replicator in open source terms. You can report bugs and expect the same order of responsiveness that you get from any open source project.

== Where can I get more help? ==

Continuent offers commercial support and feature development for Tungsten Replicator 2.0.  Visit us at [http://www.continuent.com our website] for more information. 

== What are the birds on the site logo? ==

Those are the "Tungsten Swans."  The [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whooper_Swan Whooper Swan] is the national bird of Finland, where Continuent originated.  Swans are also a symbol of beauty and grace.  Ours are replicated of course.  Also, our swans are _not_ geese.  And they are _really not_ ducks. 

== Can you replicate from one SQL platform to another? Example: Replicate from MySQL to PostgreSQL? ==

Yes. Currently we can replicate from MySQL to PostgreSQL, Oracle, and MongoDB (experimental), from PostgreSQL to PostgreSQL. Please see the [http://www.continuent.com/downloads/documentation official documentation] for more detail. 


== I have a problem with the installation. Where do I go? ==

There is a [http://code.google.com/p/tungsten-replicator/wiki/Troubleshooting troubleshooting page] in this wiki. If your problem is not covered, you may use the IRC ( irc://freenode.net #tungsten) and the [http://groups.google.com/group/tungsten-replicator-discuss mailing list].


== How do I install a master-slave replication cluster? ==

Look for {{{tungsten-installer}}} in the [http://www.continuent.com/downloads/documentation Tungsten Documentation]. There is a simple example of how to create a cluster with a single command.


== How do I add a slave to an existing cluster? ==

The procedure is almost the same used to create a master-slave cluster. You use a similar command, with {{{--master-slave}}} and {{{--master-host}}} as in the full cluster installation command. The difference is that the {{{--cluster-hosts}}} list will only contain the slave host. Tungsten will do the right thing.