#summary Webinars on-demand.

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= Real-time Replication Between MySQL and Oracle (short version)=

Lee Margulin, Database Administrator at Zappos.com, speaks about how Zappos uses Tungsten to replicate data between Oracle and MySQL. Established in 1999, Zappos.com has quickly become a leader in online apparel and footwear sales by striving to provide shoppers with the best possible service and selection, with gross merchandise sales exceeding $1 billion annually.

<wiki:video width="420" height="315" url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JnqnLTyi23A" />


= Real-time Replication Between MySQL and Oracle (long version)=

MySQL is great for front-end web facing applications. Oracle has proven itself in the demanding back-end data warehouse and reporting solutions. But how to bridge MySQL and Oracle together without paying an arm and a leg for Oracle's GoldenGate replication solution?

In this webcast we describe how to design real-time cross-database replication using Tungsten Replicator. We cover some of the pitfalls and corner cases like SQL dialect differences, data types, character sets, MySQL and Oracle peculiarities. Tungsten Replicator with some expert help from Continuent makes implementation fast and real time replication operations reliable, even for the high volume environment.

Lee Margulin, Database Administrator at Zappos.com, speaks about how Zappos uses Tungsten to replicate data between Oracle and MySQL. Established in 1999, Zappos.com has quickly become a leader in online apparel and footwear sales by striving to provide shoppers with the best possible service and selection, with gross merchandise sales exceeding $1 billion annually. Zappos.com currently stocks millions of products from over 1000 clothing and shoe brands. Zappos.com was recognized in 2009 and 2010 by FORTUNE MAGAZINE as one of the "100 BEST COMPANIES TO WORK FOR".

<wiki:video width="420" height="315" url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l9xjNxQwVPM" />


= Breaking the Cross-Site Data Barrier: Tungsten Multi-Master Replication for MySQL =

Multi-master replication between sites is the holy grail of applications ranging from credit card processing to large-scale software-as-a-service (SaaS) operations. Tungsten Replicator (http://code.google.com/p/tungsten-replicator) is award-winning open source software that helps you solve a wide range of multi-master problems that you can only dream of tackling with MySQL native replication.

Learn the nuts and bolts of multi-master replication using Tungsten.  We explain the architecture and demonstrate setup of solutions to common multi-master problems such as:

  * Aggregating MySQL data from multiple sites into a single MySQL DBMS for reporting
  * Cross site replication between 2, 3 or more masters
  * Supporting SaaS customers on multiple sites using system-of-record and sharding.

Along the way we cover practical issues like provisioning new servers, data conflicts, and failure recovery. After this webinar you'll be a multi-master guru ready to tackle the tough cross-site problems with verve and aplomb.
<wiki:video width="420" height="315" url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mLq990w3uro" />